Tableau Business Case - Sample Superstore - Category Sales Analysis Dashboard 

1. Determine the average sales of each category
2. Determine the total number of products within each category
3. Find Product Category that has highest sales for most of the years
4. Find the year and month that had the highest and lowest sales
5. Find Sales and Profit by region for the year 2017
6. Show relative percentage of Sales by Region for the year 2017
7. Find and analyze the distribution of number of quantity sold on the basis of bins

Day 3

8. Display Sales for each Category along with each sub category by region for all years in a tabular format
9. Display Sales and Profit for each sub category by region for all years
10. Create a group "small items" which has a bunch of sub categories
	Binders
	Bookcases
	Envelope
	Supplies

11. Create a set of customers with top 10 customers by profit.
Creating Sets - Sets are custom fields that are used to keep a sub set of data based on a condition.
Set can only be created on dimensions not measures1

12. Find the top 5 product subcategories by sales
13. Find the top customers by Sales but with low profit

Day 4

14. Display Total Sales for each category by Region
15. Find and Display order ids that have high sales and high profit values
16. Find and Display sub categories that have high sales and High Profit
17. Compare sales and profit for each category in a single plot
18. Compare low discount and high profit for each sub category in a single plot
	Measure with dual scale - dual axis

-->Covered the major types of charts


Filters

Live vs Extract Filters

> Live in Premium version only.
> TP has Extract filter only.
> Filters are like WHERE in SQL.

> Context Filter

19. Find the top 10 states in the west region with highest sales.
20. Show Ship Mode and Sub category w.r.t Profit where SC excludes Labels and Storage

>> Filters Execution order

Extract From Source > Data Source Filters > Context Filters > Dimension Filter > Measure Filter > Table Calculation Filter

Day 5

Calculated Fields

21. Find the average cost of each subcategory
cost = sales - profit

22. Find Profit Ratio for each sub category
P.R = SUM(Profit) / SUM(Sales)

Level of Detail Calculation
	more columns more granularity

* Parameter
	- more interactive
	
23. Allow users to select the field against which they want to visualize sale values

Data Granularity

> Level if Detail (LOD)
> Granularity - How detailed our data is
> The more detailed the data is, the higher the Granularity is

Fixed Include and Exclude Type Calculations

24. Find the percentage sales contribution of each subcategory to the total sales of each category - FIXED
25. Find the difference between total sale for each region and average sales per customer for each region - INCLUDE
26. Find the difference between sales for each region by month and total sales for each month - EXCLUDE


Day 6 

Calculations
Reference Lines
Trend Lines

* Table Calculations
	Direction
	Scope

27. Find the % of the total sales each month for each year
28. % of total sales across different categories for each quarter of the given year

Tooltips --> 